README.md, before:

# qPCR Analysis Shiny App
A user-friendly Shiny web application for analyzing qPCR data. Upload your qPCR results  and calculate copies per µL taking into account the amount of sample used for the qPCR and the diluton factor. Finally, download processed results—all in one place. The app includes clear instructions and an example template for the template table to get a processed table with the chosen sample-name for each one of your samples. You can choose which wells of the qPCR contain the standards, and which sample is in each well. 

**You will find an example with screenshots to make it even clearer in the folder "tutorial".**

# Features
- Upload qPCR data (.csv) and the template table (.xlsx)
- Calculate copies per µL for your samples
- Download processed results as CSV or Excel files
- Example of the template table included
- Clear instructions and user-friendly interface

# How to Run This Shiny App Locally
1. Clone or download this repository:
   
Click the green "Code" button and choose "Download ZIP", or use git:
`git clone https://github.com/IPSamos/qPCR-analysis.git`

2. Open R or RStudio.

3. Install required packages (if not already installed):

`install.packages(c(
  "shiny", "shinydashboard", "dplyr", "readxl", 
  "writexl", "DT"
))`

4. Set your working directory to the folder where you downloaded the app.

`setwd("path/to/qPCR-analysis")`

_(Or use RStudio's file pane to navigate and set the working directory.)_

5. In the R console, run:

`shiny::runApp()`

# Usage
1. Upload your qPCR data file (CSV, exported from your qPCR device; decimal separator can be chosen in the app).
2. Upload your standard values file (.xlsx, following the provided template). Here you can choose the each sample name and all the dilution factors. 
3. You can set the amount of sample used for your qPCR process.
4. Click the wells where the standards are to remove them.
   In our case, the qPCR machine calculate the amount of copies inside each well automatically from the standards (standard curve), so they are removed for the calculations. If you want to keep them, just unselect the wells and modify your template table!
6. Click Process Data.
7. Go to the "Results" tab to see calculated copies per µL and download results.


# Notes

**About the files to analyse:** You will find a template of the qPCR data and the Template table in the folder "templates". The columns used need to be exactly as explained in the mentioned templates.

**IMPORTANT**: When preparing the qPCR, the standards used to create this app were triplicates and were placed in the first three columns of the qPCR (from A01 to H01, from A02 to H02, and from A03 to H03). The app to work doesn't require to have triplicates of the standards, **just modify your template table correctly and remember to select or unselect the wells in the app.** Check the following example. 

|   | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| A | std | std | std |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| B | std | std | std | S1  | S1  | S1  | S8  | S8  | S8  | S15 | S15 | S15 |
| C | std | std | std | S2  | S2  | S2  | S9  | S9  | S9  | S16 | S16 | S16 |
| D | std | std | std | S3  | S3  | S3  | S10 | S10 | S10 | S17 | S17 | S17 |
| E | std | std | std | S4  | S4  | S4  | S11 | S11 | S11 | S18 | S18 | S18 |
| F | std | std | std | S5  | S5  | S5  | S12 | S12 | S12 | S19 | S19 | S19 |
| G | std | std | std | S6  | S6  | S6  | S13 | S13 | S13 | S20 | S20 | S20 |
| H | std | std | std | S7  | S7  | S7  | S14 | S14 | S14 | NC  | NC  | NC  |

---

**License:**
This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0).
See the LICENSE file for details.

**Author:**
Ivan P. Samos

Commit message:

README
Emphasize the importance of reading app instructions and provide a brief guide on usage steps.

README.md, after:

# qPCR Analysis Shiny App
A user-friendly Shiny web application for analyzing qPCR data. Upload your qPCR results  and calculate copies per µL taking into account the amount of sample used for the qPCR and the diluton factor. Finally, download processed results—all in one place. The app includes clear instructions and an example template for the template table to get a processed table with the chosen sample-name for each one of your samples. You can choose which wells of the qPCR contain the standards, and which sample is in each well. 

**You will find an example with screenshots to make it even clearer in the folder "tutorial".**

# Features
- Upload qPCR data (.csv) and the template table (.xlsx)
- Calculate copies per µL for your samples
- Download processed results as CSV or Excel files
- Example of the template table included
- Clear instructions and user-friendly interface

# How to Run This Shiny App Locally
1. Clone or download this repository:
   
Click the green "Code" button and choose "Download ZIP", or use git:
`git clone https://github.com/IPSamos/qPCR-analysis.git`

2. Open R or RStudio.

3. Install required packages (if not already installed):

`install.packages(c(
  "shiny", "shinydashboard", "dplyr", "readxl", 
  "writexl", "DT"
))`

4. Set your working directory to the folder where you downloaded the app.

`setwd("path/to/qPCR-analysis")`

_(Or use RStudio's file pane to navigate and set the working directory.)_

5. In the R console, run:

`shiny::runApp()`

# Usage
**THE MOST IMPORTANT THING IS TO READ THE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE APP.** Below I will give you a guide as well, but it is easier to follow when using the app. 
1. Upload your qPCR data file (CSV, exported from your qPCR device; decimal separator can be chosen in the app).
2. Upload your standard values file (.xlsx, following the provided template). Here you can choose the each sample name and all the dilution factors. 
3. You can set the amount of sample used for your qPCR process.
4. Click the wells where the standards are to remove them.
   In our case, the qPCR machine calculate the amount of copies inside each well automatically from the standards (standard curve), so they are removed for the calculations. If you want to keep them, just unselect the wells and modify your template table!
6. Click Process Data.
7. Go to the "Results" tab to see calculated copies per µL and download results.


# Notes

**About the files to analyse:** You will find a template of the qPCR data and the Template table in the folder "templates". The columns used need to be exactly as explained in the mentioned templates.

**IMPORTANT**: When preparing the qPCR, the standards used to create this app were triplicates and were placed in the first three columns of the qPCR (from A01 to H01, from A02 to H02, and from A03 to H03). The app to work doesn't require to have triplicates of the standards, **just modify your template table correctly and remember to select or unselect the wells in the app.** Check the following example. 

|   | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| A | std | std | std |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| B | std | std | std | S1  | S1  | S1  | S8  | S8  | S8  | S15 | S15 | S15 |
| C | std | std | std | S2  | S2  | S2  | S9  | S9  | S9  | S16 | S16 | S16 |
| D | std | std | std | S3  | S3  | S3  | S10 | S10 | S10 | S17 | S17 | S17 |
| E | std | std | std | S4  | S4  | S4  | S11 | S11 | S11 | S18 | S18 | S18 |
| F | std | std | std | S5  | S5  | S5  | S12 | S12 | S12 | S19 | S19 | S19 |
| G | std | std | std | S6  | S6  | S6  | S13 | S13 | S13 | S20 | S20 | S20 |
| H | std | std | std | S7  | S7  | S7  | S14 | S14 | S14 | NC  | NC  | NC  |

---

**License:**
This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0).
See the LICENSE file for details.

**Author:**
Ivan P. Samos
